The tape is now on.
Okay.
In the early to middle 1960s, the so-called New Wave hit science fiction,
what did you think of it then and did it have any influence on your style?
I, in the previous tape I was completely confused by the New Wave.
Um, is it been going for some time because before I was aware of what it was,
I had read some stories that seemed very strange to me.
And then I finally became, you see I was very well isolated.
I was almost, because I was close to, I had to keep close to newspaper work,
I never got very far away from home.
I was almost never in New York where the real format of the, of the, of all going on.
Um, but I didn't get as angry or as contentious over the New Wave as many writers did.
I felt sure that it was just one of the evolutionary things that do happen occasionally in science fiction,
and indeed in any form of literature.
Um, I felt certain that the New Wave as such would die out after time,
and I hoped that it would have some beneficial impact on, on science fiction, science fiction writing.
And in fact it did.
I think that after reading some of the materials, especially that that came out of Britain,
that I began to feel that there might be room for somewhat better writing than some of us had been doing, myself and Cudin.
And apparently a number of other people, whether influenced by the New Wave or not, apparently that's the same thing.
Uh, because I think that from the time shorter around the time the New Wave was beginning to die out,
that you did begin to see a far more attention to good writing than there had ever been before in science fiction fields.
So science fiction survived the New Wave and benefited from it.
And I suspect that in the years to come there'll be other innovations, other evolutionary factors
that will be called not New Wave but something else that may raise a great deal of controversy
with that participation in keep on and probably will benefit by all of that.
You continue to produce both novels and short stories.
Um, I do story a few short stories and my almost entire, all my time has taken up with novels.
Although I hope that within the next few years, that I'll be able to write more short stories,
there's nothing quite as satisfactory as writing good short stories.
You can't spend the time and all the effort on making a novel shine the way you can make a short story shine.
You can polish it up, you can clean it just like a gem.
It was a novel, you can't do that.
So I'm pleased, particularly, to see a number of the magazines hanging in there
because we are giving, we are giving young writers a chance to begin their writing career
and to polish up the art before they go on to something longer, into the book market, for example.
When you write, what are the mechanics of your writing?
Have you bought a word processor? Do you still write it out or type it or what?
I write it by wrong hand because I, my hand blows slower writing wrong hand than it would on a typewriter.
I write too fast, I get ahead of myself on a typewriter.
By writing wrong hand, I can keep pace with my mind and I do a better job of writing in wrong hand.
When I've finished with, when I've written two chapters in all games,
by then I run them to a typewriter, making changes and selections and revisions.
When I go along, that is my finished copy.
That's the second I've finally read.
What's your draft?
You've won the major awards, including the very recent one for the short story.
The one I want to ask you about is the Grandmaster Nebula.
I would think that it would be very gratifying to receive award of this stature from your peers,
not from the fans, but from your peers.
That was, I had never expected to get it.
It's very pleased to get it.
It is, it is a recognition of your standing as an author, by the people who themselves are authors.
Yes, it doesn't, it doesn't depend on popularity.
It doesn't depend on momentary success.
It depends on the represent the lifetime achievements.
And it's read by people who are well-filed writers.
It was extremely, extremely pleased. I'm very proud of it.
When you started writing science fiction in the 1930s, did you dream that your work would last
and that your work in science fiction in general would reach the level of popularity that it seems to enjoy now?
Not at all. Never for a moment. We were working in a ghetto.
There were very few of us.
Science fiction was read by only a handful.
When you met somebody and they found out you were a science fiction writer, they'd say,
how to get such crazy ideas.
I was thinking around hoping nobody would notice you.
You were the bottom of the heap. There's no question about it.
You were much more despicable than maybe the pornographic writers of today.
But we kept at it because we liked it.
Because I think after a few years of it, I began to feel that probably it would develop into my head of teacher.
But I never think that we would be putting out as great and suitable progress as we have.
A large percentage of the fiction titles that I saw today are science fiction.
And science fiction is beginning to dominate both the movie screen and the television.
We are writing the quest of a way and I hope this quest continues to rise.
I see no reason why it should.
Do you manage to read any science fiction or any other fiction in between all your writing, John?
I read some science fiction. I try to keep up with science fiction.
I try to...
This is possible to read all science fiction that is being put out.
I think you get total vision if you did.
You get a good many confusing signals if you did.
I read lots of information.
I am a history buff with emphasis on the Civil War and the settlement of our country.
And I have a few favorite authors.
Steinbeck, coming way, Thomas Lewis.
I read over and over again.
I have had a post on my desk some way way back and very a week goes past.
I don't read a few pages of post simply for the beautiful writing of the man dead.
Is that correct?
Yes.
You mentioned way back when we were talking about the city stories that you got disillusioned with the plight of man.
You alluded to it a couple of other times.
How do you view technology and man's place in it and what man's future is going to be with all this technology?
That's a hard one.
I think that we have become octagists to technologies.
That we are using technology to dehumanize ourselves.
I understand and admit that we must have higher and never higher technology to make ourselves to make possible a better life.
After all, medical technology has saved many lives.
I can remember the time when diseases, not chickenpox, dipteria were cherished.
We still have heart disease and we have cancer, but one of these days we are going to look at that.
We have a make-up, wage, and communication.
We now can listen to stars, thousands of white-years-distance millions of white-years-distance millions.
We have gone out to most of the planets in the solar system in the last few years.
One of our unmanned folks would be going out and entering space beyond some resources.
All of this is fine and it's necessary, but I do visit things that we are being overwhelmed by technology.
I am considerably uncomfortable with the electronics that are getting the computers.
I can see the day when we will abolish money and that we do all our business by computers.
It's hurting us. It's going to hurt some and still you can't expect technology because of those things.
You can see it, I'm confused.
I don't think you're the only one.
You were one of the few who would admit it, but I think you're the only one.
We're back off from being so heavy now.
Looking back on your body of works, what are some of your favorite works that you've done?
Most people, if you ask what my favorite work was, would say city.
I'm pleased that most people would say that.
But I think that I have written better works than city.
I think this way station, choice of thoughts, maybe project hope are among my better works.
The visitors was a good story.
It's hard to say which work you think is best.
Even after seven years after I've written, I'm still puzzled by which pieces work I do think is my best effort.
How do you want to be remembered as a writer?
I don't know if I will be remembered.
But if I am to be remembered as a writer, I'd like to remember that someone who wrote honestly
and who is hard to share with a heart's mind that humanities and humanities achievement.
That seems like a good place, Dan, but I want to ask you one more question.
What do you have in the works?
Should we expect to see a couple of books a year out of you now for a while or what?
You must realize that I'm getting old.
My good health has partially deserted me.
I don't type as straight as I have before.
I still write almost every day.
That's how I can do some work, but I don't do as much as I used to.
I think that the two books a year is at an end and probably should be satisfied with one book a year.
In September, a new book, A Minor Fantasy, where David Wells will be put out by Delray,
I'd rather work to St. Pargus.
I'm somewhat better halfway through it.
Mr. Simac, we look forward to a lot more.
I would hope that I could give you a lot more. I'm going to do the best I can.
How does this all sound?
This sounded great. It's really been nice.
How does it record? You have no way of knowing how to record.
The recording is fine. The engineer can listen to the recording while we're talking.
He says it sounds fine.
It sounds like your cold deserted you at least for a little while.
The cold is all gone. I haven't got it yet.
It's just beginning to seek up on me.
If I can take enough aspirin and drink enough orange juice, I may skin past well.
I'm a firm believer in vitamin C, so I'll prescribe that for you.
I think it works.
That is it.
It's pretty much good.
Mr. Simac?
This is David Carson.
I was listening in there.
I don't think I'd worry about not being remembered.
I think some of your works are extremely memorable and will be around for as long as words are in print.
Thank you very much.
Mr. Simac, we sure appreciate the chance to get to interview you.
As I said, when we make the shows, we'll get you copies of the manual note.
You'll see what you sound like.
I appreciate it.
There were small groups sitting around to understand the city.
I want to say hello to them and thank them for being there.
Thank you.
Nice talking to you, Mr. Simac. Good night now.